=pod

=head1 NAME

B<binheat> - binary heat map generator

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<binheat> [B<-1> I<file>] [B<-2> I<file>] [B<-mST>] [I<infile> [I<outfile>]]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<binheat> converts a description of a binary relation into an Embedded
PostScript image of the relation as a binary heat map (a.k.a. matrix display,
adjacency matrix, comparison chart, and probably a bunch of other names as
well).  I<infile> (or standard input if no file is specified) must list the
elements of the relation, one per line, each line consisting of two labels
(nonempty nontab character sequences) separated by one or more tabs.  (The
input may also contain comment lines in which the first nonwhitespace character
is C<#>.)  B<binheat> will then print an EPS file to I<outfile> (or standard
output if no file is specified) showing a table in which the labels from the
first column of each line are lexically sorted along the left edge, the labels
from the second column are lexically sorted along the top edge, and dots are
placed in the cells of the table to represent the elements of the relation.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-1> I<file>

The lines of I<file> will be taken as a list of all labels appearing in the
first column of the input file, and the labels along the left edge of the
output chart (or the top edge if B<-T> is in effect) will be in the same order
that they are listed in I<file>.  Labels that appear in I<file> but not the
first column of the input file will appear in the output with no relations, and
labels that appear in the first column of the input file but not I<file> will
not appear in the output at all.

This option overrides the B<-S> option for the first column only.

=item B<-2> I<file>

The lines of I<file> will be taken as a list of all labels appearing in the
second column of the input file, and the labels along the top edge of the
output chart (or the left edge if B<-T> is in effect) will be in the same order
that they are listed in I<file>.  Labels that appear in I<file> but not the
second column of the input file will appear in the output with no relations,
and labels that appear in the second column of the input file but not I<file>
will not appear in the output at all.

This option overrides the B<-S> option for the second column only.

=item B<-m>

C<< foo<TAB>bar<TAB>baz >> (or any number of tab-separated fields) will be
allowed as an abbreviation for C<< foo<TAB>bar >> followed by C<< foo<TAB>baz
>> etc.

=item B<-S>

Labels in the output will be listed in the order in which they appear in the
input file rather than in lexical order

=item B<-T>

The output will be transposed -- i.e., the first column will be used for the
top edge of the chart and the second column for the left edge

=back

=head1 RESTRICTIONS

B<binheat> only accepts input in the UTF-8 and ISO-8859-1 ("Latin-1")
encodings, and Latin-1 that looks like UTF-8 (even in part) will confuse it.
More importantly, B<binheat> can only display characters in the Latin-1 range;
anything beyond that will be represented by the Latin-1 interpretation of the
character's UTF-8 encoding.  (For example, a "é" in the input will remain a "é"
in the output, but "α" will become "Î±".)

=head1 AUTHOR

John T. Wodder II <jwodder@sdf.lonestar.org>

=cut
